POORI

Ingredients

▢3 cups whole wheat flour – 360 grams
▢1 teaspoon oil or melted ghee (optional)
▢1 teaspoon salt or add as required
▢¾ to 1 cup water or add as required
oil for deep frying – as required

Instructions
 
Making Dough

In a mixing bowl or on your work-surface, take the whole wheat flour, salt and oil or melted ghee.
Add little water at a time and knead well to form a dough. The dough should not be soft but stiff and tight. You can also make a semi-soft dough.
Assembling And Rolling
Divide the dough into small or medium pieces – about 25 to 30
Make into medium sized or slightly small balls.
Spread a bit of oil on both sides of the dough ball. Spreading oil and not dusting with flour helps the oil to stay clean and you won’t see dark burnt flour particles inside the oil.

Roll the dough evenly into circles of about ¼ inch – neither too thin nor thick.
Place the rolled poori in a plate and cover with a clean kitchen towel, so that they don’t dry up.
Frying
Heat oil in a deep frying pan or kadai.
When the oil is sufficiently hot then add one poori at a time and fry gently pressing down with the frying spoon or slotted spoon in a circular motion.
Turn over when puffed up and fry till golden brown.

Serve poori hot with a vegetable curry like korma or sweet dishes like suji ka halwa or aamras or potato curry.



DOSA
Ingredients

▢½ cup idli rice or parboiled rice or regular rice – 100 grams
▢½ cup regular rice – 100 grams
▢¼ cup urad dal – 50 grams (husked whole or split black gram)
▢⅛ teaspoon fenugreek seeds or 2 pinches (methi seeds or methi dana)
▢2 tablespoons thick poha (flattened rice)
▢1.5 cups water – for soaking both rice and lentils
▢¾ cup water – for grinding, do add water as required
▢½ teaspoon rock salt edible and food grade or non-iodized salt or sea salt crystals or Himalayan pink salt

▢oil as required
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark while making the recipe
Instructions
 
Soaking Lentils And Rice
In a bowl take the idli rice or parboiled rice along with the regular white rice. Instead of adding regular rice, you can also make the dosa with a total of 1 cup idli rice as I have shown in the video. The video has the recipe ingredients doubled in proportion.
To the same bowl, add urad dal and fenugreek seeds.

Rinse the rice, lentils and methi seeds together a couple of times and keep aside.
In a separate bowl, take the flattened rice.
Rinse it once or twice in water and then add rinsed flattened rice to the bowl containing the rinsed rice+lentils+methi seeds.
Pour 1.5 cups water. Mix. Cover with a lid and soak everything for 5 to 6 hours.
Making Dosa Batter
Drain all the water and add the soaked ingredients in a wet grinder jar.
Add ⅔ to ¾ cup water and grind till you get a fine grainy consistency of rice in the batter. A smooth consistency of batter is also fine. 

If the mixer gets heated up, then stop and wait for some minutes. When the mixer cools down, grind again. Depending on the jar capacity, you can grind everything once or in two batches. I ground in two batches and added overall ¾ cup water.
Now take the batter in a large bowl or pan.
Add ½ tsp rock salt. Mix very well. Cover and allow to ferment for 8 to 9 hours or more. Time of fermentation will vary depending on the temperature conditions.
A proper fermentation will double or triple up the volume of the batter and you will see tiny air pockets in the batter with a light sour aroma.
Now lightly stir the batter, before you begin to make dosa.
Making Dosa

Heat a cast iron pan. When the pan becomes hot, spread ¼ to ½ teaspoon oil all over the pan. Do keep the heat on low to low-medium heat, so that you are easily able to spread the batter. If the pan base is very thick, then keep the flame to medium.
Do not spread oil if you are using a non stick pan, as you won’t be able to spread the batter.
Now take a ladle full of the batter. Pour the dosa batter and gently spread the batter starting from the center and moving outwards.
Cover it with a lid and cook the dosa on a low to medium heat. Do regulate the flame as per the pan size and thickness.
When you see the batter on the top has cooked well and the bottom has become crisp and golden, then sprinkle ¼ to ½ teaspoon oil on the edges and center.
With the spoon spread the oil on the dosa.
Cook till the base is nicely golden and crisp. The base will leave the pan and the sides will also get separated when it gets cooked.
Fold and serve sada dosa hot. Make all dosai this way.
Serve these crisp plain dosa with sambar or potato masala or coconut chutney.

UTHAPPAM
For Uthappam batter

2 cups idli rice or parboiled rice or 400 grams parboiled rice or idli rice
▢2 cups water for soaking rice
▢½ cup whole husked urad dal or 120 grams whole husked urad dal
▢1 cup water for soaking urad dal
▢¼ teaspoon fenugreek seeds (methi seeds)
▢½ cup water for grinding urad dal or add as required
▢¾ cup water for grinding rice or add as required
▢1 teaspoon rock salt (edible and foodgrade) or non-iodized sea salt - add as required

For Onion Toppings
▢1 cup chopped onions or sliced shallots or pearl onions
▢⅓ cup chopped coriander leaves
▢12 to 15 curry leaves - chopped
▢2 to 3 green chilies - chopped
For Onion Tomato Toppings
▢½ to ¾ cup finely chopped onions

▢½ to ¾ cup finely chopped tomatoes
▢1 or 2 green chilies , finely chopped
▢1 to 2 tablespoon  finely chopped coriander leaves (cilantro), optional
▢oil or ghee or butter - add as required
▢Pav Bhaji Masala or sambar masala or idli podi, add as required - optional

Instructions
 
Soaking Rice And Lentils

In a bowl take the usked whole urad dal and fenugreek seeds. You can also use split husked urad dal instead of husked whole urad dal.
Rinse both the urad dal and methi seeds for a couple of times.
Then soak them in 1 cup water for 4 to 5 hours.
In another bowl take the parboiled rice or idli rice. Rinse the parboiled rice or idli rice for a couple of times and keep aside.
Add 2 cups of water. Mix well and soak everything for 4 to 5 hours.


Blending And Fermenting Batter

Strain the urad dal and reserve the water. Keep this water for blending/grinding the dal.
Use the wet grinding blade in the jar for grinding both urad dal and rice. Add the strained urad dal in the grinder or blender jar.
First add ¼ cup of the reserved water and blend for some seconds. Then add the rest of ¼ cup water and continue to blend till the batter is light, smooth and fluffy. If the mixer becomes too hot while blending, then stop for a few minutes. Let the mixer cool down and blend again.
Quantity of water depends on the freshness of urad dal. So add water as required.
Pour the urad dal batter in a large bowl or pan. The batter should be fluffy, smooth and light.
To the same jar, add half of the rice.
Then add ¼ to ½ cup water and blend till smooth. A fine grainy consistency of rice is also fine in the batter. You can blend the rice in two to three batches. I blend in two batches. For rice I always end up adding overall ¾ cup water and a few tablespoons more of the water at times.
Pour the rice batter in the bowl containing the urad dal batter.
Add 1 teaspoon rock salt or as per taste. In very cold temperatures, avoid adding salt. Instead add ¼ teaspoon sugar. Sugar aids in the fermentation process.
Mix both the batters very well with your hands or a spoon or spatula.
Cover and allow the batter to ferment overnight for 8 to 20 hours. The timing will vary depending on the temperature conditions in your city.
The batter should increase in volume and double or triple. It will also hava a pleasant sour aroma and many tiny air pockets.
Just lightly stir the batter. Check the consistency. If the batter looks too thick, you can add about ⅛ to ¼ cup water or more if required. Mix well.
Making Uttapam
Heat up a tawa or a cast iron pan, brush or spread some oil on the tawa. Pour the batter with a ladle or spoon. For non stick pan, you need not grease the pan. The tawa has to be hot. While making uttapams, you can regulate the flame from low to high. Before pouring the batter, reduce the flame to low.
Gently spread the batter to a thick pancake. Note that the quantity of batter to make uttapam will be more than what you would normally use for a dosa. The uttapam should be thick.
Cook them on a medium flame. Drizzle some oil on the top and sides.
These takes a longer time to cook than dosas. Cook till the base is golden.
Then flip and cook the other side.
Both sides should be cooked well. Prepare the uthappam this way with the rest of the batter. You can also make idlis or paniyarams or punugulu with this batter.
Serve Uthappam hot or warm with coconut chutney and sambar. You can also pack them in tiffin box as they remain soft even after cooling.
Making Onion Uttapam
Before pouring the batter, reduce the flame to low. Pour the batter with a ladle or spoon. Gently spread the batter to a thick pancake.
First method to make onion uttapam: Add some chopped onions on the uttapam as soon as you spread the batter. Lightly press the onions on the uttapam so that they stick to the batter. You can even sprinkle a pinch of salt.
Drizzle with some oil on the sides and on the uttapam. Cook on a medium flame.
When the base becomes golden and crisp, gently flip it with a spatula. Cook the side with the onions till the onions caramelize.
You can even gently press with the spatula so that some uncooked batter also gets cooked well. If the uttapam is not cooked well, there will be raw uncooked batter in the center. So do make sure to cook it properly.
Flip over to check if this side is cooked well. The onions will also be caramelized. You can caramelize the onions more if you want.
Second method to make onion uttapam: In a plate take 1 cup chopped onions, 2 or 3 chopped green chilies, 12 to 15 curry leaves (chopped) and ⅓ cup chopped coriander leaves.
Mix very well and keep aside.
Spread the batter on the tawa and top the onion mixture on the uttapam.
Drizzle some oil on the sides and top. Cook it on a medium-low to medium flame.
Then turn over and cook till the uttapam as well as the onions are caramelized.
Serve onion uttapam hot or warm with coconut chutney and sambar.


IDLI

Ingredients

▢1 cup regular rice + 1 cup parboiled rice or 2 cups idli rice or 2 cups parboiled rice
▢½ cup whole or split urad dal – 120 grams whole or split urad dal (husked black gram)
▢¼ cup thick poha – 20 grams (flattened rice)
▢¼ teaspoon fenugreek seeds (methi seeds)
▢2 cups water – for soaking rice
▢1 cup water – for soaking urad dal
▢½ cup water – for grinding urad dal or add as required
▢¾ to 1 cup water – for grinding rice or add as required

▢1 teaspoon rock salt (edible and food grade) or sea salt
▢oil – as required to apply to the idli moulds
▢2 to 2.5 cups water – for steaming idli

Instructions
 
Soaking Rice And Lentils
Pick and rinse both the regular rice and parboiled rice.
Rinse the poha and add to the rice.

Add water. Mix well. Cover and keep the rice + poha to soak for 4 to 5 hours.
In a separate bowl, rinse the urad dal and methi seeds a couple of times.
Soak the urad dal with methi seeds separately in water for 4 to 5 hours.
Making Idli Batter
Drain the soaked urad dal. Reserve the water.
Grind the urad dal, methi seed with ¼ cup of the reserved water for some seconds. Then add remaining ¼ cup water. Grind till you get a smooth and fluffy batter.
Remove the urad dal batter in a bowl and keep aside.

Grind the rice in batches to make a smooth batter.
Mix both the batters together in a large bowl or pan. Add salt and mix well.
Cover and let the batter ferment for 8 to 9 hours or more if required.
After the fermentation process is over, the idli batter will become double in size and rise.
Steaming Idli
Grease the idli moulds.
Pour the batter in the moulds and steam the idli in a pressure cooker or steamer.

If using pressure cooker remove the vent weight (whistle).
Steam for 12 to 15 mins or until the idli is done.
Serve the steaming hot idli with chutney and sambar.


MEDU VADA
Ingredients

▢1 cup urad dal (husked and split or whole black gram) – 200 grams
▢2.5 to 3 cups water – for soaking
▢3 to 4 tablespoons water – for grinding or blending lentils
▢½ teaspoon cumin seeds
▢½ teaspoon black peppercorns whole or crushed
▢1 tablespoon chopped curry leaves or 7 to 8 curry leaves
▢⅓ cup finely chopped onions – optional
▢1 teaspoon chopped green chilies or 1 to 2 green chilies

▢1 teaspoon finely chopped ginger
▢1 pinch asafoetida (hing) – optional
▢¼ cup chopped coconut pieces – optional
▢2 tablespoons chopped coriander leaves – optional
▢½ teaspoon salt or as required
oil for deep frying, as required

INSTRUCTIONS
Making Vada Batter

Rinse urad dal a couple of times in fresh water. Then soak the lentils for 4 hours or overnight.
Grind or blend the soaked lentils to a smooth batter with water.
If the batter becomes watery, then the instant relief would be to add some semolina or urad dal flour or rice flour to it.
Add all the spices, herbs and salt. Mix well.
Take a bowl of water. Apply some water from the bowl on both your palms. Take some batter in your right hand from the bowl. Give it a round shape by moving it around.
With your thumb make a hole in the center. You can also use banana leaves or zip lock bags to give the medu vada its doughnut shape.
Frying Medu Vada

In a kadai (wok) or pan heat oil for deep frying. Keep the heat to medium. 
Once the oil becomes hot, slid the vada gently and carefully into the hot oil.
Shape the batter this way and gently slid them in the oil. Don't overcrowd the kadai or pan with the vada.
Once the vada is slightly golden then gently turn over with a slotted spoon and continue to fry.
Fry them till crisp and golden. The oil should be not very hot, but medium hot. You want the vadas to be cooked from inside. Very hot oil will quickly brown the vadas from outside but they will remain uncooked from inside. Less hot oil will make the medu vada to absorb too much oil. Even if the batter is thin then also the medu vadas will absorb too much oil.

Fry all the medu vada this way till they become evenly browned and crisp.
Drain them on kitchen tissue to remove excess oil.
Serve the medhu vadai, hot or warm with sambar and coconut chutney. It can also be served with other dips like mint chutney, coriander chutney, tomato sauce or onion chutney, tomato chutney etc.
One of the best combination is sambar vada where these medu vadai are dunked in piping hot sambar and served with a side of coconut chutney. This vada sambar meal is finished with steaming hot filter coffee.

VEN PONGAL

Ingredients
Main Ingredients

▢½ cup rice – any medium to short grained or regular rice, 100 grams
▢¼ cup moong dal or 60 grams, hulled and split mung lentils
▢½ teaspoon cumin seeds – lightly crushed
▢⅛ teaspoon asafoetida (hing)
▢1 inch ginger – chopped or 1 teaspoon heaped chopped ginger
▢3 to 3.25 cups water or add as required
▢salt as required
For Tempering

▢1 teaspoon cumin seeds
▢1 teaspoon black peppercorns whole or crushed, you can also add ½ teaspoon black pepper
▢1 sprig curry leaves or 10 to 12 small to medium curry leaves
▢10 to 12 cashews – whole or halved
▢2 to 3 tablespoons Ghee (clarified butter)

Instructions
 
Roasting Moong Dal

Pick moong lentils first to get rid of stones if any. Then heat a small pan or a small kadai and add the moong lentils.
On a low heat stirring often roast the moong lentils till they become fragrant.
The moong lentils only need to be roasted till they become fragrant. No need to brown them.
Now take them in another bowl or you can use the same pan for rinsing.
Rinsing Rice And Lentils
Add rice in the bowl containing the roasted moong dal.
Rinse both rice and roasted moong dal a couple of times with water.
Cooking Rice And Moong Dal

Drain very well and then add them in a pressure cooker.
Now add the following ingredients – cumin seeds, asafetida (hing), chopped ginger. Also add salt as per taste. 
Pour 3 to 3.25 cups water. The amount of water to be added depends on the consistency you want and also on the quality of moong dal.
Pressure cook on a medium to high heat for 7 to 8 whistles or 11 to 12 minutes.
Let the pressure settle down on its own and then you remove the lid to check the doneness and consistency. If the pongal has a consistency like that of pulao, then add ½ to 1 cup hot water and mix very well. 

Both the rice and the moong dal should be cooked very well. If you want you can even slightly mash the cooked rice and moong lentils. If cooked well, then cover with the lid and keep aside.
Tempering
In another small pan, heat the ghee.
Add the cumin seeds. Let them splutter.
Then add the cashews. Fry until the cashews become light golden.
Once they begin to get light golden, then add black peppercorns and 10 to 12 curry leaves.
Stir very well and fry until the curry leaves become crisp. The black pepper should also be fried well.
Making Ven Pongal
Now pour this entire tempering on the pongal. Mix very well.
Cover with the lid (with the vent weight/whistle on the lid) and keep ven pongal aside for 5 to 6 minutes. This allows the tempering flavors to infuse with the pongal and the aroma to stay in.
Then remove the lid and serve hot with coconut chutney or sambar.

SAKKARAI PONGAL


Ingredients
Main Ingredients

▢½ cup rice (any short to medium grained variety) – 100 grams
▢⅓ cup moong dal (husked and split mung lentils) – 85 grams, you can also add ¼ cup mung lentils
▢3 cups water – for pressure cooking
▢½ cup jaggery chopped and tightly packed – 115 to 120 grams or ½ cup tightly packed jaggery powder
▢½ cup water – for the jaggery syrup
▢1 pinch edible camphor – optional
▢5 green cardamoms or ½ teaspoon green cardamom powder

▢1 clove – optional
For Frying
▢4 to 5 tablespoons Ghee (clarified butter)
▢15 to 18 cashews
▢1 tablespoon golden raisins

Instructions
 
Roasting Rice And Moong Dal

Pick the rice and moong dal first to get rid of stones if any. Then heat a small pan or a small kadai and add both the rice and moong lentils.
On a low heat stirring often roast both the rice and moong lentils, till they become aromatic.
You only need to roast till the moong lentils become aromatic. No need to brown them.
Now take them in another bowl.
Rinse both the roasted rice and moong dal a couple of times with water.
Cooking Rice And Moong Lentils
Drain well and then add them in a pressure cooker.

Pour 3 cups water. The amount of water you can add depends on the consistency you prefer and on the quality of moong dal.
Pressure cook on medium heat for 11 to 12 minutes or for 8 to 9 whistles.
Let the pressure settle down on its own in the cooker. Then remove the lid to check the doneness and consistency of the rice and lentils.
If you see a separate texture like that of a pulao/pilaf, then add ½ to 1 cup hot water and mix very well. 
Both the rice and the moong dal should be cooked very well and look mushy. With a spoon, slightly mash the cooked rice and moong lentils.
If cooked well, then cover with the lid and keep aside. The consistency of the cooked rice and lentils is like a khichdi.
Preparing Jaggery Syrup

Meanwhile when the rice is cooking, crush seeds of 5 green cardamoms + 1 clove in a mortar-pestle.
If using cardamom powder alone, then you can add ½ teaspoon of it.
Chop jaggery. You should get about ½ cup tightly packed, chopped or grated jaggery. This much amount of jaggery makes the pongal just sweet. 
Now take ½ cup water in a pan. Add the jaggery.
On a low to medium flame, heat this jaggery solution until the jaggery melts completely.
Do stir and break the jaggery chunks or pieces with a spatula so that they melt easily.
You will get an amber colored syrup when all the jaggery is melted, if you have used dark jaggery. If you have light colored jaggery, then the color will be pale yellow to yellow.
Sweetening Cooked Rice And Lentils
Straining the jaggery syrup through a fine mesh strainer, directly add it in the cooked rice and lentils mixture. If using jaggery powder, you can add directly.
Now add the crushed cardamom+clove powder and a pinch of edible camphor.
Mix everything very well. Pongal will thicken as it cools. So if the mixture looks thick, then you can add ¼ to ⅓ cup hot water or hot milk.
Frying Cashews And Raisins
Heat 5 tablespoons ghee. You can add less ghee if you want.
Add the 12 to 15 cashews. Saute the cashews till they become light golden.
Then add 1 tablespoons raisins. Begin to stir and fry.
Stirring often fry until the raisins swell and become plump.
Making Sweet Pongal
Then immediately remove the pan from the stovetop and add the fried cashews, raisins and ghee to the cooked rice and lentils.
Mix thoroughly.
Offer to the Goddess or you can serve sweet pongal hot or warm to your family members.

PANNIYARAM

Ingredients

▢2 cups Idli Batter
▢⅓ to ½ cup finely chopped onions or 1 medium-sized
▢1 teaspoon finely chopped green chilies or 1 to 2 green chillies
▢1 teaspoon finely chopped ginger – or 1 inch
▢1 pinch asafoetida (hing) – optional, skip for a gluten-free version
▢½ teaspoon crushed black pepper – optional
▢¼ teaspoon red chili powder
▢2 tablespoons chopped curry leaves

▢⅓ cup grated coconut
▢salt if required
▢oil as required

Instructions
 
Making Batter
In a bowl take the idli batter.
Add the chopped onions, green chilies, grated coconut, spices, herbs everything to the idli batter. Mix very well with a spoon.

Add salt if the idli batter does not have salt previously added to it. Combine well.
If the batter looks thick, you can add some water. If the batter is thin, you can add some rice flour.
Making Paniyaram
Heat the paniyaram chatti or Aebleskiver pan. Add a few drops of oil or as required.
Pour spoonfuls of the batter upto ¾ of the mould.
Allow the batter to cook for 2 to 3 minutes on a low or medium heat.
Turn each kuzhi paniyaram with the help of a wooden skewer or spoon.

Now allow the other side to get cooked and crisp. If needed you can add some more oil.
Turn once or twice for uniform cooking. Repeat cooking with the remaining batter.
Remove them and keep in a casserole so that they stay warm.
These kuzhi paniyaram are also good as tiffin box snack or picnic snack.
Serve paniyaram with coconut chutney or sambar or any chutney variety of your choice.


VEG SANDWICH

Ingredients
For Veg Sandwich

▢10 slices white bread or whole wheat, brown bread or any soft bread
▢2 potatoes – small to medium-sized, boiled and sliced into rounds
▢1 beetroot – medium sized, boiled and thinly sliced
▢1 cucumber – thinly sliced
▢1 small to medium onion – thinly sliced
▢1 medium tomato – thinly sliced
▢Butter softened and at room temperature, salted or unsalted, as required
▢chaat masala as required

▢black salt as required
▢roasted cumin powder as required – optional
▢freshly ground black pepper – optional
▢tomato ketchup or sauce to be served with the sandwiches
For Making Coriander Chutney
▢1 cup tightly packed coriander leaves (cilantro) Or ½ cup coriander leaves and ½ cup mint leaves
▢½ to 1 teaspoon chaat masala powder or add as required

▢1 to 2 green chilies you can also add 2 to 3 green chilies
▢salt or black salt as per taste
▢1 to 2 teaspoons water for blending or grinding, optional

Instructions
 
Making Chutney
In a mixie or blender, take coriander leaves, chaat masala powder and green chilies.
Just add a pinch or two of salt as chaat masala already has salt in it.

Grind the chutney ingredients till smooth. No need to add water. But if you cannot grind, then add 1 or 2 teaspoons of water.
Collect the coriander chutney in a bowl. 
Check the taste and add more salt if required. 
Cover and keep the chutney aside if you are making veg sandwiches immediately or else refrigerate.
Preparing Vegetables
Boil or steam the beetroot and potatoes till they are tender. You can steam both the veggies in a pan, stove-top pressure cooker or in the instant pot.

When cooled, peel both the vegetables. Then thinly slice the beetroot and slice the potatoes as well.
Peel and thinly slice onion and cucumber. 
Thinly slice the tomatoes as well. Peel and rinse the onions. Thinly slice the onions.
Making Veg Sandwich
Trim the edges of the bread slices if you want.
Butter the bread slices evenly and very well.
Now apply the coriander chutney to the slices.
Place all the veggie slices one by one.
Sprinkle the black salt and chaat masala on each one of them or alternately.
Cover the sandwich with the bread slices with the butter and chutney on them.
Slice into triangles or rectangles.
Serve Bombay veg sandwich immediately with tomato ketchup and the coriander chutney. Do not let them rest as they become soggy.