CHAPATHI

INGREDIENTS 

▢3 cup wheat flour / atta
▢1 tsp salt
▢warm water (for kneading)
▢oil (for roasting)

INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, in a large bowl take 3 cup wheat flour and 1 tsp salt. mix well.
now add water as required and knead the dough. using water helps to prepare super soft dough.
punch the dough and sprinkle water.
knead the dough until it turns super soft and non-sticky. approximately 7 minutes of kneading is required.
now place the dough in an airtight box and grease with 1 tsp oil.
cover and rest for 20 minutes.
CHAPATHI PREPARATION
firstly, take a ball sized dough and dust with wheat flour.
roll to a thick disk of 5 cm diameter.
now spread ½ tsp of oil uniformly.
fold to a triangle and dust with wheat flour.
roll gently without putting much pressure.
roll as thin as possible to have thin chapati.
now place the rolled chapati over hot tawa.
cook on medium flame until the base is cooked.
flip over and cook both sides.
spread a tsp of oil and press gently to puff up.
cook until both sides of chapathi is cooked well.
finally, chapati is ready.

NAAN

NGREDIENTS 

for dough:
▢2 cups maida / all-purpose flour / refined flour / plain flour
▢1 tsp sugar
▢1 tsp baking powder
▢¼ tsp baking soda
▢salt to taste
▢¼ cup curd / yogurt (fresh thick)
▢2 tsp oil
▢lukewater as required (to knead)
other ingredients:
▢2 tbsp butter
▢1 tbsp coriander leaves (finely chopped)

INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, knead the dough for 10 minutes with ingredients listed for dough.
cover with a moist cloth and rest for 2 hours in warm place.
after 2 hours, knead the dough slightly. to remove if any air present in the dough.
pinch a ball sized dough.
gently roll to oval shape using rolling pin. make sure you do not make too thin nor thick. and also keep the size in mind. it should not be larger than your tawa size.
grease with water over naan.
furthermore, slowly flip over and put it on hot tawa and slightly press.
now after a minute, flip the tawa upside down and cook naan directly on flame till they turn golden brown.
also brush with some butter mixed with coriander leaves.
gently scrape the naan from bottom and remove.
finally, serve butter naan hot wth your favourite curry like paneer masala.

APPAM

for appam batter:
▢3 cup raw rice
▢water (for soaking & grinding)
▢½ cup coconut (grated)
▢¼ cup cooked rice
▢1 tsp salt
NSTRUCTIONS 
how to make kerala style appam:
firstly, in a large bowl soak 3 cup raw rice for 4 hours.
drain off the water and transfer to the mixer jar.
add water as required and grind to a smooth paste.
transfer the rice batter to a large bowl. keep aside.
in a pan take ½ cup prepared rice batter along with 1 cup water.
stir and cook until the mixture thickens and forms a thick paste.
cool completely, and transfer to the mixer jar.
add ½ cup coconut, ¼ cup cooked rice, and water.
grind to smooth paste.
transfer the mixture to the bowl, and water rinsing the mixer jar.
mix well making sure everything is well combined.
cover and ferment for 8 hours or until the batter are well fermented.
after the batter has fermented well, mix gently adding 1 tsp salt.
heat the appam pan, and pour in the prepared batter.
swirl once making sure the batter gets to cover the whole pan.
cover and cook until the appam is cooked well.
finally, appam is ready to enjoy with vegetable stew.

IDDIYAPPAM
for idiyappam:
▢2 cup rice flour / idiyappam flour
▢½ tsp salt
▢3 cup water (as required)
▢1 tsp oil

INSTRUCTIONS 
how to make kerala style idiyappam:
firstly, in a large bowl take 2 cup of roasted rice flour and ½ tsp salt. you can also add idiyappam flour.
now in a saucepan take 3 cup water and 1 tsp oil.
get the water to a boil.
add the boiled water in batches to the rice flour.
mix well using a spoon.
again add hot water and mix well. continue to add in batches until the flour turns moist.
start to knead the dough for 5 minutes.
make a smooth nonsticky dough. if the dough is too soft, then idiyappam will turn sticky once steamed. and if the dough is too hard, it will be difficult to press.
now grease the idiyappam mould with oil and stuff in the dough.
press the idiyappam into a spiral shape onto the greased plate.
place it into a steamer and steam for 7 to 10 minutes.
finally, enjoy the idiyappam with veg stew or store in the casserole if serving later.


PAROTTA
INGREDIENTS 

▢3 cup maida / plain flour
▢2 tbsp rava / semolina / suji (fine)
▢1 tbsp sugar
▢1 tsp salt
▢2 tbsp ghee / clarified butter
▢water (for kneading)
▢oil (for soaking & roasting)

INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, in a large mixing bowl take 3 cup maida, 2 tbsp rava, 1 tbsp sugar, 1 tsp salt and 2 tbsp ghee.
rumble and mix well until the flour turns moist.
now add water and start to knead the dough.
add water slowly and knead to a smooth and soft dough.
further add 2 tbsp oil, cover and rest for 1 hour.
after 1 hour, punch and knead the dough again.
knead until the dough absorbs all the oil.
now pinch a ball sized dough and place in a bowl.
add ¼ cup oil, cover and soak for 1 hour.
now take the ball and roll gently.
pull and spread as thinly as possible.
cut into thin strips using a sharp knife.
bring together the stips and pull slightly.
now roll spiral, making sure all the strips are intact.
with greased hand, pat and spread the dough.
roll slightly thick, making sure the layers are intact.
now place the rolled parotta onto hot tawa. make sure to grease the tawa well.
cook on medium flame until the base is cooked.
flip over and spread ½ tsp oil.
cook on medium flame until both sides turn golden brown.
crush the parotta gently, this helps to separate the layers.
finally, enjoy kerala parrota with chana curry.

FRIED RICE

INGREDIENTS 

for cooking rice:
▢1 cup basmati rice
▢1 tsp  oil
▢½ tsp salt
▢water for soaking & boiling
for fried rice:
▢2 tbsp oil
▢2 clove garlic (finely chopped)
▢½ onion (finely chopped)
▢4 tbsp spring onion (chopped)
▢¼ carrot (finely chopped)
▢2 tbsp cabbage (finely chopped)
▢2 tbsp peas / matar
▢5 beans (chopped)
▢¼ capsicum (finely chopped)
▢¾ tsp salt
▢2 tbsp soy sauce
▢1 tbsp vinegar
▢1 tsp pepper (crushed)
▢¼ tsp salt

INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, in a large kadai heat 2 tbsp oil and stir-fry 2 clove garlic.
also, saute ½ onion and 2 tbsp spring onion until they sweat.
furthermore add vegetables of your choice like ¼ carrot, 2 tbsp cabbage, 2 tbsp peas, 5 beans, ¼ capsicum and ½ tsp salt.
stir fry on high flame without overcooking vegetables.
now add 2 tbsp soy sauce and 1 tbsp vinegar. stir-fry until the sauce is combined well.
keeping the flame on high, add cooked rice.
also, add 1 tsp pepper and ¼ tsp salt. adjust the salt as soy sauce has salt.
stir-fry by mixing well making sure rice grains won't break.
further, add 2 tbsp spring onions and mix well.
finally, enjoy veg fried rice with gobi manchurian.

NOODLES
NGREDIENTS 
1x
2x
3x
for boiling noodles:
▢6 cup water
▢1 tsp salt
▢1 tsp oil
▢125 grams noodles
other ingredients:
▢2 tbsp oil
▢2 clove garlic (finely chopped)
▢1 inch ginger (finely chopped)
▢1 chilli (slit)
▢½ onion (sliced)
▢2 tbsp spring onion (chopped)
▢½ carrot (chopped)
▢¼ green capsicum (chopped)
▢5 snow pea (chopped)
▢5 beans (chopped)
▢¼ red capsicum (chopped)
▢5 florets broccoli
▢3 tbsp cabbage (shredded)
▢2 tbsp tomato sauce
▢1 tbsp soy sauce
▢1 tbsp vinegar
▢1 tbsp chilli sauce
▢¼ tsp pepper powder
▢½ tsp salt

INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, in a large vessel take 6 cup water, 1 tsp salt and 1 tsp oil.
once the water comes to a boil place a pack of hakka noodles (125 gm)
boil the noodles for 3 minutes or till it turns al dente. refer package instructions to know the exact cooking time.
drain off the water from noodles and pour 1 cup of cold water to prevent from further cooking.
drizzle 1 tsp oil and mix gently, to avoid noodles from sticking to each other. keep aside.
now in a large kadai heat 2 tbsp oil and saute 2 clove garlic, 1 inch ginger and 1 chilli.
saute ½ onion, 2 tbsp spring onion on high flame.
further add ½ carrot, ¼ green capsicum, 5 snow pea, 5 beans, chopped, ¼ red capsicum and 5 florets broccoli.
stir fry on high flame for 2 minutes or until veggies are cooked yet retain their crunch.
also add 3 tbsp cabbage and stir fry.
further add 2 tbsp tomato sauce, 1 tbsp soy sauce, 1 tbsp vinegar, 1 tbsp chilli sauce, ¼ tsp pepper powder and ½ tsp salt.
stir fry until sauces are well combined.
add in boiled noodles and mix gently.
toss and mix until noodles are cooked completely.
finally, garnish with spring onion and enjoy veg noodles.


UPMA

INGREDIENTS 

for classic upma:
▢2 tbsp oil
▢¾ tsp mustard
▢1 tsp cumin
▢1 tsp urad dal
▢1 tsp chana dal
▢1 dried red chilli
▢few curry leaves
▢½ onion (finely chopped)
▢1 inch ginger (finely chopped)
▢2 chilli (finely chopped)
▢½ tsp salt
▢3 cup water
▢1 tsp sugar
▢1 cup rava / semolina (coarse)
▢1 tsp ghee
▢2 tbsp coriander (finely chopped)

INSTRUCTIONS 
how to make classic upma recipe:
firstly, in a large kadai heat 2 tbsp oil. splutter ¾ tsp mustard, 1 tsp cumin, 1 tsp urad dal, 1 tsp chana dal, 1 dried red chilli and few curry leaves.
add ½ onion, 1 inch ginger, 2 chilli and ½ tsp salt.
saute until the onions soften slightly.
further, add 3 cup water and 1 tsp sugar. get the water to a rolling boil.
now keep stirring in one hand and add 1 cup rava slowly.
make sure to keep stirring to prevent lump formation.
cover and simmer for 2 minutes or until the rava absorb all the water.
add 1 tsp ghee and 2 tbsp coriander. mix well.
finally, enjoy upma with coconut chutney.

KHICHIDI

Ingredients

▢1 cup rava – 150 grams, fine textured (sooji or cream of wheat or semolina flour)
▢3 tablespoons Ghee
▢1 teaspoon mustard seeds
▢1 teaspoon chana dal (split and husked bengal gram)
▢1 teaspoon urad dal (split and husked black gram)
▢⅓ cup chopped onions
▢1 or 2 green chilies – chopped or ½ to 1 teaspoon chopped green chillies
▢½ teaspoon finely chopped ginger
▢8 to 9 curry leaves – chopped
▢¼ cup finely chopped carrots or grated carrots
▢¼ cup green peas – fresh or frozen
▢½ cup finely chopped tomatoes
▢¼ teaspoon turmeric powder
▢2 tablespoons coriander leaves
▢3 cups water
▢salt as required

INSTRUCTIONS

In the same pan or kadai, add 3 tablespoons ghee. Keep the heat to a low or medium-low.
Once the ghee becomes hot, add mustard seeds and let them splutter. 
When the mustard seeds begin to splutter, add chana dal and urad dal.
On a low heat, fry till the lentils become golden. Make sure not to burn the lentils.
Then add finely chopped onions. Sauté till the onions turn translucent.
Next add chopped green chillies, finely chopped ginger and chopped curry leaves.
Stir and mix.
Add finely chopped carrots, green peas and finely chopped tomatoes. Mix to combine.
Then add turmeric powder.
Mix again and saute for 3 to 4 minutes on low heat.
Then pour 3 cups water. Add salt as per taste.
Increase the heat and let the water come to a rolling boil.
Once the water comes to a boil, then reduce the heat and add the rava in batches.
As soon as you add a batch of roasted rava, mix very well. So that lumps are not formed.
Add another batch of rava. Mix again.
This way add the rava in 3 to 4 batches and mix very well.
Cover the pan with a lid and on low heat, steam the rava kichadi for about 2 to 3 minutes.
Once done then remove the lid and add 2 tablespoons chopped coriander leaves. Mix very well.
Serve Rava Kichadi accompanied with some lemon wedges and coconut chutney. While serving, you can also add some roasted or fried cashews.