SAMBAR RICE
Ingredients
For Cooking Rice And Dal

▢1 cup rice
▢½ cup toor dal (tuvar dal, arhar dal or pigeon pea lentils)
▢3 cups water – for pressure cooking
▢¼ teaspoon salt
▢1 teaspoon sesame oil (gingelly oil)
For Making Tamarind Pulp
▢½ tablespoon tightly packed tamarind
▢⅓ cup hot water
For Cooking Vegetables

▢1 tablespoon sesame oil (gingelly oil)
▢⅓ cup thickly sliced onions or pearl onions or shallots
▢5 to 6 curry leaves
▢1 pinch asafoetida (hing)
▢½ cup diced tomatoes
▢1.5 cups chopped mixed veggies – like french beans, carrots, capsicum, brinjal, pumpkin
▢1 drumstick (medium to large), use tender drumsticks
▢½ teaspoon turmeric powder (ground turmeric)

▢½ teaspoon kashmiri red chili powder or paprika
▢2 to 2.5 cups water or add as required
▢salt as required
▢1 tablespoon Sambar Powder
▢1 tablespoon Ghee – optional
For Tempering
▢2 tablespoons sesame oil (gingelly oil)
▢1 teaspoon mustard seeds

▢3 to 4 dry red chillies – halved and seeds removed
▢12 to 15 curry leaves
▢1 generous pinch asafoetida (hing)
For Serving
▢2 to 3 teaspoons Ghee – optional
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark while making the recipe
Instructions
 
Cooking Rice And Lentils

Rinse together rice and toor dal (tuvar dal or pigeon pea lentils) a couple of times in water. Drain all the water and add both rice and dal in a 3 litre stovetop pressure cooker.
Add ¼ teaspoon salt, 3 cups water and 1 teaspoon sesame oil.
Pressure cook for 15 to 16 minutes on medium heat.
When the pressure falls naturally on its own, remove the lid and check if the rice and lentils are cooked together.
Mash lightly and keep aside covered. In case the lentils are undercooked, then add some more water and pressure cook for some more time.
Making Tamarind Pulp
Meanwhile when the rice & lentils are cooking, soak ½ tablespoon tightly packed tamarind in ⅓ cup hot water for about 20 to 30 minutes.
Later squeeze the tamarind pulp extract in the bowl of water and keep aside.
Cooking Veggies
So when the lentils and rice are cooking, you can also start to prep and cook the veggies. Heat 1 tablespoon sesame oil in a pan.
Add ⅓ cup thickly sliced onions. You can also use pearl onions or shallots.
Sauté for 1 minute on a low to medium heat.
Then add 5 to 6 curry leaves (kadi patta) and 1 pinch of asafoetida (hing).
Sauté for a couple of seconds then add ½ cup diced tomatoes. Mix and saute tomatoes for 2 minutes.
Next add 1.5 cups chopped mixed veggies like french beans, carrots, capsicum, brinjal, pumpkin and 1 medium to large drumstick. Sauté the veggies for a minute.
Add ½ teaspoon turmeric powder and ½ teaspoon kashmiri red chili powder. Mix again very well.
Now add 2 to 2.5 cups water or add as required.
Season with salt as per taste. Stir to mix.
Cover the pan with a lid and cook the veggies on medium-low to medium heat for 16 to 18 minutes. Do check in between.
Simmer till the veggies are almost cooked. Then add the tamarind pulp.
Next add 1 tablespoon sambar powder. You can also add more sambar powder if you want. Mix very well.
Continue to cover and cook till the veggies are cooked well and the raw taste of tamarind disappears. So cook for a further 5 to 6 minutes or more on low to medium heat.
Making Sambar Rice
When the veggies are cooked tender and softened, then add the lightly mashed dal and rice.
Mix everything thoroughly. if you want a more liquid consistency in sambar rice then add some hot water at this step and then mix again.
Then add 1 tablespoon ghee. Ghee can be skipped if you want.
Mix again. Check the taste and add more salt if needed.
Making Tempering
Heat 2 tablespoons sesame oil in a tadka pan or a small frying pan. Add 1 teaspoon mustard seeds and let them crackle.
Then add 3 to 4 dry red chilies, 12 to 15 curry leaves and 1 generous pinch of asafoetida (hing).
Stir and fry till the red chilies change their color and become dark. Take care not to burn them.
Pour this entire tempering mixture on the sambar rice. Mix very well.
Serve sambar sadam plain or you can accompany with a side veggie dish, curd (yogurt), pickle or appalam (papaddums). You can also dot with some ghee while serving.



PULIYODHARAI

INGREDIENTS 

for puliyodharai masala powder:
▢1 tsp sesame oil / gingelly oil / nalla ennai
▢1 tsp coriander seeds
▢2 tsp urad dal
▢2 tsp chana dal
▢½ tsp pepper
▢¼ tsp methi / fenugreek seeds
▢4 dried kashmiri red chilli
▢1 tbsp sesame / til
other ingredients:
▢2 tbsp sesame oil / gingelly oil
▢1 tsp mustard / rai
▢½ tsp urad dal
▢½ tsp chana dal
▢2 tbsp peanuts (roasted)
▢1 dried kashmiri red chilli (broken)
▢few curry leaves
▢pinch of hing / asafoetida
▢1 cup tamarind extract
▢¼ tsp turmeric / haldi
▢½ tsp jaggery / gud
▢1 tsp salt
▢3 cup cooked rice

INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, heat 1 tsp gingelly oil and roast spices.
further roast 1 tbsp sesame seeds till it turns golden brown.
blend to fine powder and puliyodharai masala powder is ready.
now in a large kadai heat 2 -3 tbsp gingelly oil.
add in 1 tsp mustard, ½ tsp urad dal, ½ tsp chana dal and 2 tbsp peanuts. saute till mustard seeds splutter.
further add 1 red chill, few curry leaves and pinch of hing. saute for few seconds.
add 1 cup tamarind juice, ¼ tsp turmeric, ½ tsp jaggery and 1 tsp salt.
mix well and boil the mixture for 10 minutes or till oil separates.
further add 2-3 tbsp of prepared puliyodharai masala powder.
continue to cook till the oil separates from sides. pulikaachal is ready.
now add 3 cup cooked rice and mix gently.
finally, puliyodharai - temple style is ready to serve.

LEMON RICE

Ingredients
For Cooking Rice

▢1 cup rice (heaped) or 3 to 4 cups cooked rice
▢1.75 to 2 cups water
▢¼ teaspoon salt or add as required
Other Ingredients
▢1.5 to 2 tablespoons lemon juice or add as required
▢1 teaspoon mustard seeds
▢1 teaspoon urad dal (spilt and skinned black gram)
▢2 dry red chilies – preferably seeds removed

▢1 teaspoon chopped green chilies or 1 to 2 green chillies – chopped
▢12 to 15 curry leaves
▢1 generous pinch asafoetida (hing)
▢½ teaspoon turmeric powder
▢1 tablespoon cashews – halved or chopped (optional)
▢¼ cup peanuts – optional
▢3 tablespoons sesame oil (gingelly oil) or any neutral oil
▢salt as required
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark while making the recipe
Instructions
 
Soaking Rice

Rinse rice grains a couple of times and soak in enough water for 20 to 30 minutes. 
Then drain all the water from the soaked rice.
Stove-Top Pressure Cooking
Cook rice in a 2-litre or 3-litre pressure cooker with salt and 1.75 to 2 cups water for 2 to 3 whistles or 8 to 10 minutes on medium to medium-high heat. 
When the pressure settles down on its own in the cooker, remove the lid. Remove the cooked rice in a plate or in a bowl.
1 heaped cup rice will yield 3 to 4 cups rice. This will depend on the type and quality of rice. 

Let the cooked rice become warm or cool at room temperature

Frying Nuts
In a small frying pan, heat 2 tablespoons sesame oil. First fry the peanuts until crunchy and then set them aside. 
In the same oil, then fry cashews until golden. Remove and set aside.
Now add 1 tablespoon sesame oil in the same pan. Keep the flame to a low.
Add the mustard seeds and let them crackle. Once the mustard seeds begin to crackle, add the urad dal.
Fry until the urad dal turns golden. Fry everything on a low flame, so that the lentils do not burn.
Then add the red chilies, green chilies (chopped) and curry leaves. Sauté for a few seconds until the red chilies change color. 
Switch off the heat and add the asafoetida and turmeric powder. Mix very well
Making Lemon Rice
Immediately pour this tempering mixture on cooked and cooled rice. Add the fried peanuts and cashews, lemon juice, salt. Mix very well.
Keep the bowl or pan covered for the flavors to blend for 4 to 5 minutes.
Then serve the lemon rice.
While serving you can choose to garnish chitranna with some chopped coriander leaves (cilantro).

CURD RICE

Ingredients
For Cooking Rice

▢½ cup rice – 100 grams, any short grained to medium-grained rice
▢1.5 cups water – for pressure cooking
Other Ingredients
▢1 cup Curd (yogurt) – 250 grams
▢¼ cup milk – optional
▢1 green chilli chopped or ½ teaspoon
▢1 teaspoon ginger – finely chopped

▢1 teaspoon curry leaves – finely chopped or 4 to 5 curry leaves, chopped
▢1 tablespoon coriander leaves (cilantro), chopped
For Tempering
▢1 tablespoon sesame oil (gingelly oil)
▢½ teaspoon mustard seeds
▢½ teaspoon urad dal (husked and split black gram dal) – optional
▢5 to 6 curry leaves – chopped or kept whole

▢⅛ teaspoon asafoetida (hing)
For Garnish
▢1 to 2 tablespoons pomegranate arils – optional, sweet grapes can also be added instead
▢1 tablespoon coriander leaves – chopped

Instructions
 
Cooking Rice

Rinse the rice grains a couple of times in water. Then add the rice in a 2-litre stovetop pressure cooker.
Add 1.5 cups water. Stir and mix very well.
Pressure cook rice on medium heat for 5 to 6 whistles or 8 to 9 minutes till the rice is cooked and softened very well.
When the pressure settles down on its own, remove the lid and check the doneness of rice.
The rice has to be more softer than what we cook on a daily basis and look mushy.
With a spoon or vegetable masher, mash the rice. Close the cooker and allow the rice to become lukewarm or come at room temperature.
Making Curd Rice

When the rice becomes comes at room temperature and has completely cooled, add fresh curd and milk.
Mix again very well and break lumps if any. You can either use the spoon or masher while breaking the lumps.
Add finely chopped ginger, finely chopped curry leaves, chopped green chilies and chopped coriander leaves.
Instead of adding ginger and curry leaves to the rice, you can also fry them in the tempering.
Add salt. Mix very well. Keep aside.
Tempering
Heat a small pan or tadka pan and add sesame oil in it. You can use peanut oil or sunflower oil instead of sesame oil.
When the oil becomes hot, lower the heat. Add mustard seeds.
Let the mustard seeds crackle.
Then add urad dal. Urad dal is optional and can be skipped.
Fry on a low heat stirring often till the urad dal becomes golden.
Lastly add the add curry leaves and asafoetida. Mix very well.
Switch off the heat and immediately pour the tempering in the curd rice mixture. Again mix very well.
Serve Curd Rice topped with a few coriander leaves or pomegranate arils or grapes.
You can skip the fruits too and just serve curd rice as is. You can also serve with fried sun dried green chillies or any South Indian mango pickle.
Store any leftovers in the refrigerator for some hours. Better to eat on the same day.
  

TOMATO RICE

Ingredients
For Soaking Rice

▢1 heaped cup basmati rice or any regular rice
▢water as required
More Ingredients
▢1 cup finely chopped tomatoes (tightly packed) or 3 medium to large tomatoes or 200 grams
▢⅓ cup finely chopped onions or 1 medium-sized onion
▢1.5 teaspoons Ginger Garlic Paste or 1 inch ginger + 5 to 6 small to medium garlic crushed in mortar-pestle
▢½ teaspoon chopped green chilli or serrano pepper or 1 green chilli

▢½ teaspoon mustard seeds
▢4 to 5 fenugreek seeds (methi seeds) – optional
▢½ inch true cinnamon
▢2 green cardamoms
▢2 to 3 cloves
▢6 to 7 curry leaves (medium-sized)
▢¼ teaspoon turmeric powder
▢½ teaspoon red chilli powder

▢½ teaspoon black pepper powder or crushed black pepper
▢½ teaspoon Coriander Powder (ground coriander)
▢1 teaspoon cumin powder (ground cumin)
▢½ tablespoon chopped mint leaves
▢¼ cup chopped coriander leaves (cilantro)
▢1.5 to 1.75 cups water or add as required
▢2 tablespoons oil – any neutral oil
▢salt as required
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark while making the recipe
Instructions
 
Preparation

Rinse basmati rice or any regular rice for a couple of times in water.
Then soak the rice in water for 20 to 30 minutes. Later drain the rice and keep aside.
Chop the tomatoes, onions and green chillies finely. Peel and crush the ginger-garlic in a mortar pestle. Also, chop the mint and coriander leaves
Keep aside all the spices required for the rice.
Sautéing Onions, Tomatoes, Spices
In a 3 litre pressure cooker, heat the oil. Keep the flame to a low and add mustard seeds and crackle them. Then add fenugreek seeds and just lightly fry for a couple of seconds without burning them.

Then add finely chopped onions and cinnamon, cardamoms and cloves.
Stir and sauté until the onions turn translucent and soften.
Add the ginger-garlic paste, chopped green chilies and curry leaves.
Stir and sauté for some seconds until the raw aroma of ginger-garlic goes away
Now add chopped mint leaves and coriander leaves.
Stir and saute for a minute.
Keep heat to a low or switch off the heat. Add the finely chopped tomatoes and turmeric powder, red chilli powder, black pepper powder or crushed black pepper, coriander powder and cumin powder.
Mix very well and sauté the tomatoes until they soften and become pulpy with oil releasing from the sides.
Cooking Tomato Rice
Add the soaked rice. Gently mix the rice with the tomato mixture very well. Sauté for a minute.
Add 1.75 cups water. For a more softer consistency in the rice, you can also add 2 cups water.
Season with salt as per taste.
Cover and pressure cook tomato rice for 2 whistles on medium flame or about 10 to 11 minutes. To get a softer rice, you can also pressure cook for 3 whistles.
When the pressure settles down on its own. Then remove the lid and gently fluff the tomato rice.
Serve tomato rice with appalams or chips or with a side raita.


VEG BIRIYANI


Disable Auto Lock Screen while cooking?
 INGREDIENTS 

▢3 tbsp ghee / clarified butter
▢2 bay leaf / tej patta
▢2 inch cinnamon stick / dalchini
▢1 star anise
▢5 cloves / lavang
▢4 cardamom / elachi
▢½ tsp pepper
▢½ tsp cumin seeds / jeera
▢1 medium onion (finely chopped)
▢1 tsp ginger - garlic paste
▢5 beans (chopped)
▢10 florets gobi / cauliflower
▢¼ cup peas / mattar
▢1 carrot (chopped)
▢1 potato (cubed)
▢3 mushrooms (sliced)
▢1 cup curd / yogurt
▢½ tsp turmeric / haldi
▢1 tsp kashmiri chilli powder / lal mirch powder
▢¼ tsp cumin powder / jeera powder
▢2 tsp biryani masala
▢salt to taste
▢6 tbsp coriander leaves (finely chopped)
▢20 mint / pudina leaves (roughly chopped)
▢6 tbsp onions (fried)
▢1½ cups basmati rice (soaked 30 minutes)
▢2 tbsp saffron water
▢2 cups water

INSTRUCTIONS
firstly, in a large cooker heat ghee and saute spices.
further, saute onions and ginger - garlic paste well.
additionally, add in mixed vegetables and saute till all vegetables shrinks.
now add in curd keeping flame on low.
also add in spice powder and salt to taste. mix well.
also add in coriander leaves, mint leaves and fried onions.
spread soaked basmati rice.
further sprinkle biryani masala powder and salt.
also place in coriander leaves, mint and fried onions.
additionally, pour in saffron water and ghee.
pour water and simmer for 25 minutes.
finally, serve veg biryani prepared in cooker along with raita.

CHICKEN BIRIYANI
INGREDIENTS 

1 1/4 lbs (567 g) bone-in, cut up, skinless chicken, cleaned and excess skin removed
Marinade
1/2 cup (115 g) plain whole milk yogurt
1 tbsp neutral oil
2 tbsp biryani masala (recipe in post), or sub store-bought biryani masala
1 tsp coriander powder
1/2 tsp cumin powder
1/2-1 tsp red chili powder, start with 1/2 tsp if using store-bought biryani masala
1/4 tsp turmeric powder
1/4 tsp nutmeg powder
pinch cane sugar, omit if using store-bought biryani masala
2 tsp kosher salt, start with 1 ¼ tsp if using store-bought biryani masala
Whole Spices
3 medium dried bay leaves, (tez patta)
5-6 whole cloves, (loung)
4-5 whole black cardamoms, (badi elaichi)
6 star anise, (badiyaan)
6 green cardamom pods, (elaichi)
2 3-inch cinnamon sticks, (daarchini)
3/4 tsp cumin seeds, (zeera)
1/2 tsp whole black peppercorns, (kaali mirch)
Parboiled Rice
1 3/4 cups (~325-350 g) aged, long grain basmati rice
1 1/2 tbsp kosher salt
1 tbsp oil
1 tsp lemon juice or vinegar
Biryani
1/4 cup neutral oil, plus more as needed
2 tbsp ghee, or sub butter
2 (~400 g) medium yellow onions, thinly sliced or finely chopped
6-8 (1 tbsp heaped) garlic cloves , crushed
1- inch (1 tbsp heaped) ginger, crushed
1 (75-80 g) small tomato, finely chopped
1-2 small green chili peppers (such as Thai or Serrano), chopped
5 dried plums , (alu bukhara)
1/3 – 1/2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp garam masala, may omit if using store-bought biryani masala
1/2 tsp red chili flakes, optional
1 tsp kewra essence, depending on strength
1 tsp lemon juice
Layering/Topping
1/2 tsp chaat masala or garam masala
1 tbsp oil
1/4 cup cilantro leaves, chopped

1-2 tbsp mint leaves, chopped (or sub more cilantro)
1/8 tsp yellow/orange food coloring mixed with 1 tbsp milk or water
1 (5-7 slices) lemon, thinly sliced
For Serving
 Cucumber/Vegetable Raita, or
 Cilantro/Mint Raita (Yogurt Chutney)
INSTRUCTIONS 
In a medium bowl, combine the chicken with the ingredients listed under ‘marinade’. Cover and set aside or refrigerate (ideally) up to overnight. When ready to use, allow the chicken to come to room temperature.
Thoroughly wash the rice and soak it in water. Set aside.
Heat a large, heavy bottomed pan over high heat. Add the oil, ghee, and onions and sauté until the onions are golden (~15-20 minutes). Deglaze the pan with ¼ cup water. Once the water dries up, add the whole spices, garlic, and ginger and sauté for another 2 minutes.
Add the chicken with its marinade and sauté until it changes color (~2-3 minutes). Add the tomatoes, green chili pepper, and dried plum (alu bukhara) and stir to coat. Add ½ cup water (the water should cover about 1/3 of the chicken) and bring to a gentle boil.
Turn the heat down to a gentle simmer (this is low heat on my stovetop), cover, and allow the chicken to cook for 30 minutes, stirring midway. While the chicken is cooking, proceed to the next step. Turn off the heat once the chicken has cooked.
Meanwhile, prepare the rice. Place a medium pot over high heat and bring 7 cups (1.75 quarts) of water to a boil (See Tip). Add salt, oil, and lemon juice/vinegar and stir. Once the water comes to a boil, drain and add the rice. Stir, and bring it back up to a boil. Once it comes to a boil again, boil for 5 minutes (no more than 5 minutes and 30 seconds), or until the rice is just cooked with a bite to it. It shouldn’t get mushy when pressed between your fingers. (See Note 1) Drain and set aside.
Uncover the chicken. Raise the heat to medium-high to sauté out any excess water for 2-3 minutes. Add salt, garam masala, and red chili flakes for more heat (if desired). The oil will have separated from the ‘masala’. Turn off the heat. Add kewra water and lemon juice and stir to combine.
Steaming ('Dum')
If needed, lightly oil the bottom of a dutch oven or stock/soup pot. Layer half of the drained rice. Sprinkle 1/4 tsp of the chaat/garam masala on top of the rice. Add in all the chicken, and top with the remaining rice. Sprinkle the remaining 1/4 tsp of chaat/garam masala. Drizzle in the colored milk and oil. (Optional: Sprinkle a pinch of food coloring directly for more variation in color.) Sprinkle the cilantro leaves and mint leaves, and arrange the lemon slices on top.
If your pan isn’t heavy bottomed, place a heat diffuser, flat griddle, or tava underneath the pan to diffuse the heat. Layer the lid with a kitchen cloth (or aluminum foil) and seal tightly. (See Note 2) Turn on the heat to medium and allow the biryani to develop steam for 4-5 minutes. You’ll be able to feel the steam starting to escape the sides. Then turn down to the lowest heat and allow it to cook in its steam (‘dum’) for 20 minutes. Turn off the heat and allow the biryani to rest with the lid on for 10 minutes. Do not stir or mix. To serve, gently move on to platter with rice paddle or small plate. Serve hot with yogurt or raita.


PULAO

INGREDIENTS 

for pulao masala paste:
▢½ cup coriander
▢¼ cup mint / pudina
▢1 inch ginger
▢2 clove garlic
▢2 chilli
▢2 pod cardamom
▢1 inch cinnamon
▢5 cloves
▢1 tsp fennel / saunf
▢¼ cup water
for veg pulao:
▢2 tbsp ghee / clarified butter
▢1 tsp cumin
▢1 bay leaf
▢1 inch cinnamon
▢2 pod cardamom
▢3 cloves
▢½ tsp pepper
▢5 cashew (halves)
▢½ onion (sliced)
▢1 tomato (finely chopped)
▢5 beans (chopped)
▢½ capsicum (cubed)
▢2 tbsp peas
▢½ carrot (chopped)
▢½ potato (cubed)
▢1 tsp salt
▢2 cup water
▢1 cup basmati rice (soaked 20 minutes)
for onion tomato raita:
▢1 cup curd
▢1 cup water
▢½ onion (finely chopped)
▢½ tomato (finely chopped)
▢½ cucumber (finely chopped)
▢2 tbsp coriander (finely chopped)
▢½ tsp roasted cumin powder
▢¼ tsp salt

INSTRUCTIONS 
veg pulao preparation:
firstly, in a small mixi take ½ cup coriander, ¼ cup mint, 1 inch ginger, 2 clove garlic, 2 chilli, 2 pod cardamom, 1 inch cinnamon, 5 cloves and 1 tsp fennel.
add ¼ cup water and blend smooth paste. keep aside.
ina large kadai, heat 2 tbsp ghee. add 1 tsp cumin, 1 bay leaf, 1 inch cinnamon, 2 pod cardamom, 3 cloves, ½ tsp pepper and 5 cashew.
saute on low flame until the spices turn aromatic.
now add ½ onion and saute until the colour changes slightly.
further, add 1 tomato and saute until the tomatoes turn soft and mushy.
additionally, add 5 beans, ½ capsicum, 2 tbsp peas, ½ carrot and ½ potato.
saute for a minute until the vegetables turn aromatic.
now add prepared coriander pudina masala paste and 1 tsp salt. mix well.
further, add 2 cup water and stir well getting to a boil.
once the water comes to a rolling boil, add 1 cup basmati rice. make sure to soak basmati rice for 20 minutes.
mix well, cover and simmer for 20 minutes.
after 20 minutes, veg pulao is ready to serve.
onion tomato raita preparation:
firstly, in a large bowl, take 1 cup curd and whisk with 1 cup water.
add ½ onion, ½ tomato, ½ cucumber, 2 tbsp coriander, ½ tsp roasted cumin powder and ¼ tsp salt. mix well.
finally, onion tomato raita is ready to enjoy with mix veg pulao.


RAJMA CHAWAL

INGREDIENTS 

for pressure cooking:
▢1 cup rajma
▢1 bay leaf
▢1 black cardamom
▢1 tsp salt
▢4 cup water
other ingredients:
▢1 tbsp ghee / clarified butter
▢1 tsp cumin / jeera
▢1 inch cinnamon
▢5 cloves
▢1 onion (finely chopped)
▢1 tsp ginger garlic paste
▢1 chilli (slit)
▢2 cup tomato pulp
▢¼ tsp turmeric
▢1 tsp kashmiri red chilli powder
▢1 tsp coriander powder
▢½ tsp cumin powder
▢½ tsp aamchur / dry mango powder
▢½ tsp garam masala
▢½ tsp salt
▢1 tsp kasuri methi (crushed)
▢2 tbsp coriander (finely chopped)

INSTRUCTIONS 
in a large kadai heat 1 tbsp ghee and saute 1 tsp cumin, 1 inch cinnamon and 5 cloves.
add in 1 onion, 1 tsp ginger garlic paste, 1 chilli and saute until the onions turn golden brown.
now add 2 cup tomato pulp.
cover and cook for 10 minutes, or until the oil is separated.
further keeping the flame on low add ¼ tsp turmeric, 1 tsp chilli powder, 1 tsp coriander powder, ½ tsp cumin powder, ½ tsp aamchur, ½ tsp garam masala and ½ tsp salt.
saute until the spices turn aromatic.
add in cooked rajma and mix well.
cover and simmer for 15 minutes or until the curry thickens.
now add 1 tsp kasuri methi, 2 tbsp coriander and mix well.
finally, enjoy rajma with hot jeera rice.

