MUTTON CURRY

Ingredients
500 grams Mutton , cut into pieces
5 cloves Garlic , finely chopped
2 Onions , finely chopped
3/4 cup Curd (Dahi / Yogurt)
1 tablespoon Cumin powder (Jeera)
1 tablespoon Coriander Powder (Dhania)
4 Cloves (Laung)
Oil , as required
3 Green Chillies , (adjust according to your taste)
1 teaspoon Ginger , grated
Coriander (Dhania) Leaves , Few sprigs, finely chopped
2 Tomatoes , finely chopped
2 Bay leaves (tej patta)
3 Cardamom (Elaichi) Pods/Seeds
1 tablespoon Red Chilli powder
1 tablespoon Turmeric powder (Haldi)
Salt , to taste
How to make Dhaba Mutton Recipe-Spicy Mutton Gravy
To begin making the Dhaba Mutton Recipe, marinate lamb with yogurt, red chilli powder, turmeric powder, cumin powder, coriander powder, and salt

Mix everything well and keep it aside for about 2 hours.

Heat oil in a heavy bottomed pan and add cloves, cardamoms, bay leaves, garlic, ginger and saute for a few seconds.

Add chopped onion, green chillies and saute them till they turn golden brown.

Add in the marinated lamb and cook it till the lamb is cooked and tender.

Once it is done, add in the tomatoes and green chillies. Cook it for about 15 to 20 minutes.

After 15 to 20 minutes, add in the required water and let it cook for 5 minutes more.

Sprinkle garam masala and cook for another 3-4 minutes. Once it is done, switch off the stove and garnish it with chopped coriander leaves.

Serve  Mutton with steamed rice, roti or paratha.



CHICKEN CURRY

Ingredients
▢1 kilogram bone-in chicken pieces
Ingredients For Tomato Paste:
▢1 Cup chopped tomato
▢2 dry red chili
▢4 garlic cloves
▢1 inch piece of ginger
Ingredients For Onion Paste:
▢2 Cup sliced onion
▢1 Cup mustard oil
Other Ingredients For Curry:
▢1 bay leaf (tej patta)
▢1 cinnamon stick (dal chini)
▢1 teaspoon Kashmiri red chili powder
▢1 teaspoon turmeric powder
▢1 teaspoon coriander powder (dhaniya powder)
▢1 teaspoon garam masala ( see recipe )
▢Salt to taste
▢1 Cup water
▢2 tablespoon dry fenugreek leaves (kasuri methi)
▢1 – 2 sliced green chilli
▢1 tablespoon chopped fresh coriander
Instructions
Wash and clean the chicken pieces. Pat them dry and set aside.
Make tomato paste of chopped tomato, red chilli, garlic, and ginger using 1 – 2 tablespoons of water. Set aside.
tomato pastePin
Heat mustard oil in the Kadhai. Once it’s smoking hot, add sliced onion and fry till they are golden brown in color. Transfer the fried onion to a plate. Allow becoming lukewarm. Grind them to a smooth paste without using water. Keep them aside.
onion pastePin
In the same kadhai, add the bay leaf and cinnamon in the leftover oil. Fry for 10 – 20 seconds to release their aroma.
making murgh curryPin
Add the tomato paste, turmeric, red chili powder, coriander powder, and fry over low-medium heat till oil starts separating from the masala.
making murgh curryPin
Add the chicken pieces, season with salt, and fry till they become pale white. This usually takes 8 – 10 minutes. Do not rush this process.
making murgh curryPin
Next, add the onion paste. Mix nicely. Cover and cook the chicken till its juices are released. Keep the flame at the lowest setting. Do not add any water. A good quality tender chicken does not take more than 10 minutes to get cooked. Open the lid, check the chicken for doneness.
making murgh curryPin
If cooked, add 1 Cup of water to make gravy (add coconut milk if you prefer) along with garam masala, dry fenugreek leaves, fresh coriander, and sliced green chili (optional).
making murgh curryPin
Simmer the curry for 5 – 10 minutes for the gravy to thicken a bit. Taste the curry and add more seasoning if required.
Serve Indian chicken curry with rice or chapati.


FISH CURRY
Ingredients
8 dry red chiles
2 tablespoons cumin seeds
1 tablespoon mustard seeds
2 large tomatoes, cut into chunks
1 teaspoon turmeric powder
1 teaspoon garam masala
3 to 4 tablespoons coconut powder
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon paanch phoran seeds
10 to 12 curry leaves
1 large onion, ground to a paste
1 tablespoon ginger paste
1 tablespoon garlic paste
2 cups hot water
1 walnut-sized ball of tamarind paste
2 pounds (1 kilogram) fish, cut into 1-inch-thick slices
Salt, to taste
Chopped coriander, to taste
INSTRUCTIONS

Gather the ingredients.

Easy Fish Curry for Beginners ingredients 
Heat a heavy-bottomed pan over medium heat and roast the dry red chiles, mustard, and cumin seeds until they begin to release their aroma.

spices toasting in a pan 
Cool and grind to a fine powder in a spice grinder, blender, or by hand using a mortar and pestle.

toasted spices ground into a powder with a mortar and pestle 
Grind the toasted spice powder, tomatoes, turmeric, garam masala, and coconut into a smooth paste. Set aside.

Grind the toasted spice powder, tomatoes, turmeric, garam masala, and coconut into a smooth paste
Heat the oil in a wide heavy-bottomed pan and add the paanch phoran and curry leaves. When they stop spluttering, add the onion paste and fry until light brown.

onions, paanch phoran and curry leaves cooking in a pot 
Add the ginger and garlic pastes and fry for 3 to 4 minutes.

ginger and garlic paste cooking in a pot with the onion mixture 
Add the tomato and spice paste and fry until the oil begins to separate from the masala.

masala in a pot 
Add 2 cups of hot water and the tamarind paste to the masala and mix well.

water added to the masala paste in the pot 
Bring the gravy to a boil and then simmer.

gravy cooking in a pot 
Gently add the fish to the gravy and cook until done.

add fish to the gravy in the pot 
Garnish with chopped coriander and serve hot with plain boiled rice.

Easy Fish Curry for you in a pot, served with rice 



CRAB CURRY

Ingredients
8 whole crabs, cooked
1 (1/2-inch) piece tamarind
1/2 cup hot water
2 large onions, sliced
2 large tomatoes, sliced
10 dried red chiles, or fewer to taste
2 tablespoons garlic paste
1 tablespoon ginger paste
1 1/2 cups grated coconut
2 tablespoons ground coriander
2 tablespoons ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
1/2 teaspoon red chili powder
2 green chiles, slit open
2 tablespoons cooking oil, vegetable, canola, or sunflower
3 cups hot water, more or less for desired gravy
Salt, to taste


INSTRUCTIONS

Gather the ingredients.

Indian Crab Curry ingredients 
Remove the crab legs and set them aside. Remove the claws from the legs so that each leg is divided into 2 parts.

remove crab legs from the crab body 
Using a cleaver, cut the crab bodies into halves or quarters. Set aside.

cut the crab body into pieces 
In a small bowl, soak the tamarind in 1/2 cup of hot water for 10 minutes.

soak the tamarind in a small glass bowl
Mash the tamarind with your fingers to mix it well into the water.

Strain the tamarind through a sieve to extract all of the pulp. Set the puree aside.

strain the tamarind above a bowl
In a food processor, add the onion, tomato, dried red chiles, garlic and ginger pastes, coconut, all of the spices—coriander powder, cumin powder, turmeric powder, and red chili powder—and tamarind puree.

food processor with onion, tomato, dried red chilies, garlic and ginger pastes, coconut, all of the spices, and tamarind pureé
Grind the mixture well to make a smooth paste (also called masala).

Set a deep, heavy-bottomed pan over a medium heat. When the pan is hot, add the cooking oil and heat the oil.

oil in a frying pan
Add the green chiles and the masala paste to the oil and sauté for 5 minutes. Stir frequently to prevent burning.

green chilies and the masala paste to the oil and sauté
Add 3 cups of hot water—use more or less depending on how much gravy you'd like—and bring the gravy to a boil.

green chilies and the masala paste to the oil with water 
Reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 10 minutes. Add salt to taste.

Gently add the pieces of crab to the gravy and cook uncovered for 10 more minutes. Remove from the heat.

Indian Crab Curry in a frying pan 
Serve immediately with plain boiled rice or ​jeera rice. Enjoy.



PRAWN CURRY
INGREDIENTS
1 tablespoon oil
1 cup chopped onions
1 cm fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
2 garlic cloves, peeled and chopped
1 green chili, chopped (optional)
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric (turmeric powder)
1 teaspoon ground cumin (cumin powder)
1 teaspoon ground coriander (coriander powder)
1/2 - 1 teaspoon red chili powder
1 teaspoon garam masala
2 tablespoons tomato paste (tomato purée)
500 g prawns, peeled and deveined
Water
1/4 cup coconut milk
2 tablespoons chopped coriander (cilantro) leaves
Salt and pepper to taste
Steamed rice, to serve
Roti or naan, to serve
INSTRUCTIONS
Heat oil in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Add onions. Sauté, stirring occasionally, for 2-3 minutes or until they are soft and translucent.
Add ginger, garlic and green chilies (if using). Sauté, stirring, for 1 minute or until fragrant.
Add ground turmeric, ground cumin, ground coriander, garam masala and red chili powder. Sauté, stirring, for a minute or until aromatic.
Add tomato paste. Sauté, stirring, for few seconds.
Add prawns and 1 cup water. Season with salt and pepper.
Bring to a boil. Reduce heat, and simmer, covered, for 5-10 minutes depending on the size of the prawns or until they are cooked through.
Add coconut milk. Simmer for 1 minute.
Garnish with coriander (cilantro) leaves.
Serve with rice or naan.

EGG CURRY


Ingredients
2 tbsp oil
one 1 inch cinnamon
2 cloves
1 cardamom
1 green chilli
1 tsp cumin seeds
1/4 tsp turmeric powder
1 tsp kashmiri powder
1 tsp coriander powder
1 tsp garam masala powder
2 tbsp fresh cream
coriander leaves to garnish
water as needed
salt to taste
For frying eggs
1 tsp oil
4 hard boiled eggs
1/4 tsp turmeric powder
1/2 tsp red chilli powder
salt to taste
To saute and grind :
2 tsp oil
6 garlic cloves sliced
two 1 inch ginger
1 green chilli slitted
3 onions sliced
3 tomatoes sliced
Instructions
To a pan heat 2 tsp oil then add 6 garlic cloves sliced, two 1 inch ginger and 1 green chilli. Saute until golden. Transfer to a bowl adn set aside.
To the same pan add 3 big onions sliced.
Saute until transparent.
Add 3 tomatoes roughly chopped.
Saute until mushy and raw smell of tomatoes leave.
Transfer to a bowl and set aside.
Grind this to a fine paste along with little water.
Boil eggs for 12-14 mins or until well cooked. It should be hard boiled. You can check detailed post here. Prick with a toothpick.
To a pan 1 tsp oil, add 1/4 tsp turmeric powder, 1/2 tsp red chilli powder, salt to taste.
Give a quick mix.
Add boiled eggs.
Toss well.
Heat 2 tbsp oil – add one 1 inch cinnamon, 2 cloves, 1 cardamom, 1 green chilli and 1 tsp cumin seeds. Let it splutter, give a quick mix.
Add 1/4 tsp turmeric powder, 1 tsp kashmiri red chilli powder.
Give a quick mix.
Add the prepared paste.
Mix it well.
Add salt to taste, 1/4 cup water.
Mix it well.
Add 1 tsp coriander powder, 1 tsp garam masala powder.
Give a quick mix.
Cook covered for 5 mins.
Open and give a quick mix.
Add 1/2 cup water.
Give a quick mix.
Let it boil for few mins until oil separates. Then add 2 tbsp fresh cream. You can replace it with thick curd too. If adding curd beat it well until creamy and add it.
Give a quick mix.
Add the eggs.
Give a quick mix.
Boil for few mins until oil separates. Garnish with coriander leaves. Switch off.
Enjoy it hot! Creamy delicious egg curry is ready!
Serve it with roti, nan, rice etc.



CHICKEN FRY


INGREDIENTS
  
250 grams cubed boneless chicken chicken breast or thigh or drumstick
1.5 tsp fresh ginger garlic paste see FAQs above for tips
1/2 tsp red chilli powder adjust to taste
1/2 tsp black pepper powder
1/4 tsp turmeric powder
1 tsp coriander powder
2 tsp lime juice
Salt to taste
Oil for deep frying
INSTRUCTIONS
 
Clean the chicken pieces and place in a bowl
Add all the spices, ginger garlic paste, salt, and lime juice to this
Mix well until the chicken pieces are well coated. You can also mix the marinade ingredients first in the bowl and then add the chicken pieces and mix together to coat
Cover and refrigerate for a few hours or overnight. Leave for a minimum of 30 minutes if you are short on time
Heat oil for deep frying and gently add the chicken pieces to it without overcrowding them
Fry on medium-heat heat stirring occasionally until the chicken pieces are golden brown
Take out one piece and test to see if the pieces are fully cooked
When done, drain and place on kitchen towels for the excess oil to get absorbed
Proceed with the remaining pieces until all done
Serve hot with rice, any curry, and a simple salad. It’s best to consume chicken fry on the same day you prepare them



PRAWN FRY

INGREDIENTS
2 lb Prawn, cleaned and deveined
▢2 Onions, chopped
▢2 sprig Curry Leaves
▢1 tsp Ginger-Garlic Paste
▢1 tsp Chili Powder
▢2 tsp Coriander Powder
▢1 tsp Garam Masala Powder
▢½ tsp Turmeric Powder
▢Salt, as needed
▢½ cup Oil
INSTRUCTIONS
n a bowl, add the cleaned prawns or shrimp and add salt, ginger garlic paste, turmeric, chili, coriander, and garam masala powder
prawns and indian spices in a bowl
Mix everything well and rest it for about 15 minutes
marinated prawns in a bowl
Now in pan with medium heat, pour oil and add onions. Saute the onions until it turns soft
sauting onions in a pan
Now add the marinated prawns and give a good mix
mixing prawns with onions
Allow the prawns to cook until it leaves water and swirls up
Prawns cooking in a pan
Now switch the heat to high and roast the prawns until all the masala coat thoroughly on them
roasting prawns until red
Finally, add a lot of curry leaves and give a quick stir. And now it is ready for you to taste and enjoy
adding curry leaves to the prawn
To Serve
Serve this delicious prawn fry as a starter or side dish for rice


MUTTON SOUP

Ingredients
1/2 kg mutton/lamb with bones
1 medium sized tomato
few curry leaves
1 tbsp sesame oil
salt to taste
3 cups water
Finely chopped coriander leaves for garnishing
To grind
8 to 10 shallots
1 tsp whole black peppercorns
1/2 tsp cumin seeds
1 inch fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
4 to 5 garlic pods
1 inch fresh turmeric (peeled and Chopped) or 1/2 tsp turmeric powder
Preparations
Clean the mutton properly.
Place all the ingredients given under "to grind" in a mixie jar or blender and grind it coarsely.
Chop or squeeze the tomato and keep it aside.
How to prepare pepper mutton soup
In a pressure cooker, add the mutton pieces, ground onion pepper paste, squeezed tomato, curry leaves, and salt.
Add water and oil and mix everything well.
Cover and pressure cook for one whistle over high heat.
Reduce the heat to low and cook for another 10 mins.
Turn off the heat. Once the pressure goes off, open the lid and mix it gently.
Check the salt and pepper. Add if needed.
Add 1 tbsp of sesame oil (optional) as it gives a nice aroma and flavor.
Finally, add freshly chopped coriander leaves and serve hot.
By Santhi Therese
The Indian Claypot
https://theindianclaypot.com/


You may also like my other soup recipes such as Chicken Talumein Soup Chicken Clear Soup and Sweet Corn Chicken Soup for non-vegetarians and Mushroom Soup, Pumpkin Soup, Carrot Soup, Beetroot Soup, Cauliflower Soup, Broccoli Soup Creamy Tomato Soup and Spinach Soup.



place all the ingredients given under “to grind” in a mixie jar or blender


and grind until coarsely as shown in the picture.


In a pressure cooker, add the mutton pieces, ground onion pepper paste, squeezed tomato, curry leaves and salt.


Then add water and oil and mix everything well.


Cover and pressure cook until you heard a whistle, over high heat.


Then reduce the heat to low and cook for another 10 mins. Turn off the heat.


Once the pressure goes off, open the lid and mix it gently. Check the salt and pepper. Add some salt and pepper if needed. Finally, add freshly chopped coriander leaves and serve hot.

