SAMBAR RECIPE
▢½ cup toor dal (rinsed)
▢¼ tsp turmeric
▢1 tsp oil
▢1½ cup water
▢½ onion (petals)
▢1 tomato (cubed)
▢1 carrot (chopped)
▢5 beans (chopped)
▢1 potato (cubed)
▢few drumstick
▢2 brinjal (chopped)
▢few curry leaves
▢1 chilli
▢2½ cup water
▢½ cup tamarind extract
▢2 tbsp sambar powder
▢1 tsp jaggery
▢½ tsp turmeric
▢1 tsp salt
for tempering:
▢2 tsp oil
▢1 tsp mustard
▢1 tsp urad dal
▢2 dried red chilli (broken)
▢pinch hing
▢few curry leaves
INSTRUCTIONS
1.firstly, in a pressure cooker add ½ cup toor dal, ¼ tsp turmeric, 1 tsp oil and 1½ cup water.
2.pressure cook for 5 whistles or until the dal is cooked well.
3.once the pressure releases, using a whisk mash the dal smooth.
4.now add ½ onion, 1 tomato, 1 carrot, 5 beans, 1 potato, few drumstick and 2 brinjal.
5.also add few curry leaves, 1 chilli and 2½ cup water.
6.mix well and get to a boil.
7.once the water comes to a boil, add ½ cup tamarind extract, 2 tbsp sambar powder, 1 tsp jaggery, ½ tsp turmeric and 1 tsp salt.
8.mix well making sure everything is well combined.
9.cover and pressure cook for 1 whistle.
10.once the pressure releases, open the cooker and check for seasoning and also make sure the vegetables are cooked completely.
11.to prepare the tempering, heat 2 tsp oil. add 1 tsp mustard, 1 tsp urad dal, 2 dried red chilli, pinch hing and a few curry leaves.
12.splutter the tempering.
13.pour the tempering over the sambar and mix well.
14.finally, enjoy mix veg sambar with hot steamed rice.


RASAM
for rasam powder:
▢1 tsp oil
▢1 tsp coriander seeds / dhaniya seeds
▢½ tsp jeera / cumin seeds
▢10 methi seeds / fenugreek seeds
▢3 dried kashmiri red chili / lal mirch
▢few curry leaves
▢¼ tsp black pepper / lal mirch
other ingredients:
▢1 medium sized tomato (finely chopped)
▢2 green chili (slit lengthwise)
▢few curry leaves
▢1 cup tamarind extract
▢½ tsp turmeric powder / haldi
▢½ tsp jaggery
▢salt to taste
▢2 cups water
▢1 cup toor dal (cooked)
▢2 tbsp coriander leaves (finely chopped)
for tempering:
▢1 tsp oil
▢1 tsp mustard seeds / rai
▢½ tsp urad dal
▢2 dried red chili (broken)
▢few curry leaves
▢pinch asafoetida / hing
INSTRUCTIONS 
1.firstly, add a tsp of oil and roast coriander seeds, jeera, methi seeds, red chili, curry leaves and pepper.
2.blend to fine powder. keep side.
3.in a kadai take tomatoes, green chili and curry leaves.
4.also add tamarind extract, turmeric, jaggery and salt.
5.cover and boil the tamarind water for 15 minutes.
6.add 2 cups of water and get to boil.
7.now add cooked toor dal and mix well.
8.also add prepared rasam powder or udupi rasam powder.
9.mix well and continue to boil for 2 minutes.
10.meanwhile, prepare for tempering by heating oil.
11.add mustard, urad dal, dried red chili, curry leaves and hing.
12.pour the tempering onto the rasam.
13.also add coriander leaves and serve tomato rasam recipe or easy tomato saaru recipe with rice and papad.



KARA KUZHAMBU
2 tablespoons oil – sesame oil or preferred neutral oil
▢½ teaspoon mustard seeds
▢1 teaspoon urad dal (hulled and split black gram)
▢9 to 10 pearl onions or 4 to 5 shallots or 1 medium to large onion – diced
▢8 to 10 curry leaves or 1 sprig of curry leaves
▢1 tomato – medium-sized, chopped
▢1.5 cups vegetables – chopped; brinjals, potatoes, carrots or your preferred veggies
▢1 or 2 drumsticks peeled and chopped in 2 to 3 inches batons

▢¼ teaspoon turmeric powder
▢½ teaspoon red chilli powder
▢1.5 cups water – to add to kuzhambu gravy
▢salt as required
For Making Tamarind Extract
▢½ tablespoon tamarind – tightly packed
▢½ cup water – hot, for soaking tamarind
For Roasting And Grinding To Paste

▢3 teaspoons coriander seeds
▢¼ teaspoon fenugreek seeds
▢¼ teaspoon whole black pepper
▢½ teaspoon cumin seeds
▢½ cup coconut – chopped or grated, fresh or frozen
▢½ to ⅔ cup water – for grinding or blending
INSTRUCTIONS

PREPARATION
 Heat a small pan. Keep the heat to a low and add the following spices – coriander seeds, fenugreek seeds, black pepper and cumin seeds.
Stirring often, dry the roast spices till fragrant. Set aside and allow the roasted spices to cool.
Meanwhile in a small bowl, soak tamarind hot water for 20 to 30 minutes.
Add the roasted spices in a grinder jar along with grated coconut or chopped coconut
Add ½ to ⅔ cup water and grind to a smooth and fine paste. Set aside.
Quarter the brinjals and keep them in soaked salted water for 15 to 20 minutes. Also chop the other veggies.
Making Kara Kuzhambu
1.Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a pot or pan.
2.Lower the heat and add mustard seeds and urad dal.
3.On a low heat crackle the mustard seeds and brown the urad dal.
4.Add the pearl onions or chopped shallots and curry leaves. Stir and sauté for a minute on low heat.
5.Then add chopped tomatoes. Stir and sauté till the tomatoes soften.
6.Add the chopped veggies. Add turmeric powder and red chili powder.
7.Stir well and saute the veggies for a minute or two.
8.Add 1.5 cups water. Also add salt as required.
9.Stir to mix. Cover the pan with lid. On a low to medium heat simmer the veggies, till they are almost cooked.
10.Squeeze the tamarind extract from the soaked tamarind and set aside.
11.Once the veggies are almost cooked, add the tamarind extract.
12.Add the ground coconut and roasted spices paste. Stir and mix very well.
13.If the gravy consistency looks thick, add some water and mix.
15.Simmer the kuzhambu gravy for 7 to 8 minutes on a low heat without the lid. Stir at intervals.
16.Serve Kara Kuzhambu with steamed rice or even with idli or dosa.

MOR KUZHAMBU
for masala paste:
▢1 tsp toor dal
▢1 tsp cumin seeds / jeera
▢½ tsp raw rice
▢2 tsp coriander seeds / dhaniya seeds
▢½ cup water (to soak)
▢½ cup coconut (fresh / desiccated)
▢3 green chillis
for mor kuzhambu:
▢1½ cup pumpkin / ash gourd / vellai poosanikai / boodu kumbalkai / cucumber (chopped)
▢½ cup water
▢salt to taste
▢½ tsp turmeric powder / haldi
▢1 cup curd / yogurt (slightly sour)
for tempering:
▢2 tsp coconut oil / any cooking oil
▢1 tsp mustard seeds / rai
▢pinch asafoetida / hing
few curry leaves

INSTRUCTION:
1.firstly, in a small bowl take toor dal, cumin seeds, raw rice and coriander seeds.
2.further add water and soak for 30 minutes.
3.transfer the soaked dal and spices into blender.
4.also add ½ cup coconut, 3 green chilli and blend to smooth.
5.now in a large kadai add chopped pumpkin.
6.also add in water, salt and turmeric powder.
7.cover and cook for 10 minutes.
8.furthermore, add in prepared coconut masala paste.
9.keeping the flame on low, add 1 cup thick whisked curd.
10.stir continuously till the curd combines well.
11.boil the mor kuzhambu on low flame till it turns just frothy.
12.now prepare the tempering by heating coconut oil.
13.once the oil turns hot, add in
14.tsp mustard seeds, pinch of hing and few curry leaves.
15.allow to splutter and pour the tempering over prepared mor kuzhambu.
16.finally, serve mor kuzhambu with hot steamed rice.

PANEER BUTTER MASALA
for masala paste:
▢2 tbsp oil
▢2 tbsp butter
▢5 cloves
▢2 pods cardamom
▢2 onion (sliced)
▢2 clove garlic
▢1 inch ginger
▢3 tomato (sliced)
▢15 cashew
for curry:
▢2 tbsp oil
▢2 tbsp butter
▢1 bay leaf
▢1 chilli
▢1 onion (finely chopped)
▢½ tsp turmeric
▢1 tsp chilli powder
▢¾ tsp coriander powder
▢¼ tsp cumin powder
▢½ garam masala
▢1 tsp salt
▢1 cup water
▢2 tbsp cream
16 cubes paneer
▢1 tsp kasuri methi
▢2 tbsp coriander (finely chopped)


INSTRUCTIONS 
how to make gravy base:


1.firstly, in a large kadai heat 2 tbsp oil and 2 tbsp butter.
2.add 5 cloves, 2 pods cardamom and saute on low flame until it turns aromatic.
3.now add 2 onion, 2 clove garlic, 1 inch ginger.
4.saute until onions shrink slightly.
5.further add 3 tomato, 15 cashew and saute for 2 minutes.
6.cover and boil for 10 minutes, or until tomato softens.
7.cool completely and transfer to the blender and blend to smooth paste.
8.pass the curry to the filter to get rid of seeds and skin.
9.smooth and silky, the tomato-onion paste is ready. keep aside.
how to make paneer butter masala:


1.firstly, in a large kadai heat 2 tbsp oil, 2 tbsp butter, 1 bay leaf and 1 chilli. saute until the spices turn aromatic.
2.now add 1 onion and saute until onions turn and golden brown.
3.keeping the flame on low, add ½ tsp turmeric, 1 tsp chilli powder, ¾ tsp coriander powder, ¼ tsp cumin powder, ½ garam masala and 1 tsp salt.
4.saute until the spices turn aromatic. make sure not to burn the spices.
5.add in prepared onion tomato paste and mix well.
6.cook until the oil separates from the masala paste.
7.now add 1 cup water and mix well adjusting the consistency.
8.further, add in 2 tbsp cream and mix well.
9.also, add 16 cubes of paneer and mix gently.
10.simmer for 5 minutes, or until the paneer absorbs the flavour.
11.add 1 tsp kasuri methi and 2 tbsp coriander. mix well.
12.finally, enjoy paneer butter masala with roti or naan.


DAL TADKA

For Cooking Lentils

▢1 cup tuvar dal (arhar dal or split pigeon pea lentils) or 200 grams or ½ cup tuvar dal + ½ cup masoor dal (split pink lentils)
▢1 to 2 green chilies or serrano peppers – chopped or slit lengthwise
▢½ cup chopped onions or 1 medium sized onion
▢1 cup finely chopped tomatoes or 2 medium sized tomatoes
▢1 teaspoon finely chopped ginger or 1 inch ginger, peeled and finely chopped
▢½ teaspoon turmeric powder (ground turmeric)
▢½ teaspoon Garam Masala
▢1 pinch asafoetida (hing) – optional
2.5 cups water – for pressure cooking
▢1 or 2 tablespoon low-fat cream – optional
▢2 tablespoon chopped coriander leaves (cilantro)
▢salt as required
For Tempering Or Tadka
▢3 tablespoon oil or 3 tablespoon ghee (clarified butter)
▢1 teaspoon cumin seeds
▢5 to 6 medium garlic cloves – finely chopped
▢2 to 3 dry red chilies – broken and seeds removed
▢a generous pinch of asafoetida (hing) – optional
1 teaspoon crushed kasuri methi (dry fenugreek leaves) – optional
▢½ teaspoon red chili powder or cayenne pepper or paprika
Instructions
 
1. Cook Lentils
1. Thoroughly rinse 1 cup tuvar dal (arhar dal, or split & husked pigeon pea lentils) in water. Add them to a 3-litre pressure cooker.
No pressure cooker? You can also cook the lentils in a pot. Soak the lentils for an hour or two before you cook them in a pot.

2. Add ½ cup chopped onions, 1 cup finely chopped tomatoes, 1 or 2 green chilies (1 teaspoon of chopped Anaheim pepper or Serrano pepper can be subbed for green chillies) and 1 teaspoon finely chopped ginger.
3. Pour 2.5 cups of water into the pressure cooker.
If cooking in a pot, then about 4 to 4.5 cups of water can be added.
4. Add ½ turmeric powder and 1 pinch of asafoetida (hing). If you do not have asafoetida, then skip it.
5. Mix well.
6. Pressure cook the lentils for about 7-8 whistles, or until they become soft and creamy.
Mash the cooked lentils with a wired whisk or with a spoon and keep aside. If the consistency looks thick, then add about ½ – 1 cup water (depending on the thickness) to get a medium consistency. Simmer dal for 3 to 4 minutes.
7. Once the desired consistency is reached, add 1-2 tablespoons low-fat cream (optional), ½ teaspoon garam masala powder, 2 tablespoons chopped coriander leaves (cilantro) and salt to taste. Switch off the the heat.
8. Mix well so that everything combines uniformly. Taste and adjust salt before adding tadka.

Make The Tempering (Tadka Or Chaunk)
9. Next, heat 3 tablespoons oil or ghee (clarified butter) in a small pan over low-medium heat. First, add 1 teaspoon cumin seeds and crackle them. The cumin should get fried and not be raw, but be careful not burn them.
10. Now add 2 to 3 dry red chilies, a generous pinch of asafoetida, and 5-6 medium sized garlic cloves which have been finely chopped. Let the garlic brown lightly and the red chilies change color. Do not burn the garlic.
11. Lastly, add 1 teaspoon crushed kasuri methi (fenugreek seeds) and ½ teaspoon red chili powder or cayenne pepper. Mix well and turn off the stove.
12. Pour entire tempering along with the oil or ghee into the dal.
13. You can either mix the dal with tempering, or serve the dal tadka with the tempering on top it.Garnish with coriander leaves


MUSHROOM GRAVY
INGREDIENTS
for masala:
▢1 tsp coriander seeds / daniya seeds
▢½ tsp jeera / cumin seeds
▢¼ tsp pepper / kali mirch
▢4 dried kashmiri red chili
for gravy:
▢3 tsp oil
▢1 inch cinnamon stick / dalchini
▢½ tsp cumin / jeera
▢1 medium sized onion (finely chopped)
▢1 tbsp ginger-garlic paste
▢2 to matoes (pulped)
▢½ tsp turmeric powder / haldi
▢½ tsp garam masala powder
▢salt to taste
▢10 mushrooms (sliced)
▢1 cup water (add as required)
▢¼ cup cashew paste (prepared with 5 cashews)
▢2 tbsp cream
▢2 tbsp coriander leaves (finely chopped)
▢½ tsp kasuri methi / dry fenugreek leaves (crushed)



INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, dry roast coriander seeds, jeera, pepper and dried red chili.
further blend to smooth powder and keep aside.
now in a large kadai heat oil and saute cumin seeds, cinnamon stick.
also add onions, ginger garlic paste and saute till they turn slightly golden brown.
further add tomato pulp and saute till oil separates from sides.
additionally add turmeric powder, garam masala powder, prepared masala powder and salt.
saute on low flame for a minute or till masalas are cooked well.
add sliced mushrooms and mix gently.
cover and simmer for 5 minutes, or till mushrooms sweat.
further add 1 cup of water and cashew paste.
mix well. cover and simmer for 15 minutes, or till mushrooms cook completely.
add cream, coriander leaves and kasuri methi. mix well.
finally, serve mushroom curry with rice or roti.

firstly, in a thick bottomed pan dry roast coriander seeds, jeera, pepper and dried red chili.
mushroom gravy
dry roast on low to medium flame till the spices turn aromatic.
mushroom curry recipe
further blend to smooth and fine powder and keep aside.
mushroom curry recipe
now in a large kadai heat oil.
mushroom curry recipe
further saute cumin seeds and cinnamon stick till they turn aromatic.
mushroom curry recipe
also add onions and saute till they turn slightly golden brown.
mushroom masala recipe
additionally add ginger garlic paste and saute till the raw aroma disappears.
mushroom masala recipe
further add tomato pulp and saute well. to prepare tomato pulp, blend 2 tomatoes in a blender.
mushroom masala recipe
saute till the tomato pulp thickens and oil separates from sides.
mushroom masala recipe
additionally add turmeric powder, garam masala powder, prepared masala powder and salt.
mushroom masala recipe
saute on low flame for a minute or till masalas are cooked well.
mushroom masala recipe
add sliced mushrooms and mix gently.
mushroom masala recipe
cover and simmer for 5 minutes, or till mushrooms sweat.
mushroom gravy
continue to saute for a minute making sure the masalas are mixed uniformly.
mushroom gravy
further add 1 cup of water and cashew paste. to prepare cashew paste, soak 5 cashews in hot water for 10 minutes and later blend it smooth.
mushroom gravy
mix well. cover and simmer for 15 minutes, or till mushrooms cook completely.
mushroom gravy
add cream, coriander leaves and kasuri methi. mix well.
mushroom gravy
finally, serve mushroom curry with rice or roti.



VEG KURMA

INGREDIENTS 
for masala paste:
▢1 cup coconut (grated)
▢8 cashew / kaju
▢1 inch ginger
▢1 clove garlic
▢2 chilli
▢2 tbsp poppy seeds / khus khus
▢1 tsp coriander seeds
▢½ tsp fennel / saunf
▢handful coriander
▢¼ cup water
for kurma:
▢4 tsp oil
▢1 bay leaf
▢1 inch cinnamon
▢2 pods cardamom
▢3 cloves
▢1 onion (finely chopped)
▢1 tomato (finely chopped)
▢½ carrot (chopped)
▢10 florets cauliflower / gobi
▢3 tbsp peas / matar
▢1 potato (chopped)
▢5 beans (chopped)
▢1 tsp salt
▢2 cup water
▢1½ cup water


INSTRUCTIONS 
firstly, in a large kadai heat 4 tsp oil and saute spices.
add 1 onion and saute well.
further, add 1 tomato and saute until soft and mushy.
now add vegetables and 1 tsp salt.
saute for 2 minutes or until vegetables are stir-fried.
also, add 2 cup water and stir well.
cover and boil for 10 minutes or until vegetables are almost cooked.
add in prepared masala paste to the cooked vegetables and stir fry for 2 minutes.
now add 1½ cup water and stir well.
cover and cook for 10 minutes or until vegetables are cooked completely.
finally, enjoy veg kurma with poori or chapati.




VADACURRY
for vada:
▢1 cup chana dal
▢½ tsp fennel / saunf
▢1 chilli
▢½ tsp cumin / jeera
▢2 tbsp coriander (chopped)
▢few curry leaves (chopped)
▢½ tsp salt
▢oil for frying
for curry:
▢2 tbsp oil
▢1 bay leaf
▢1 inch cinnamon
▢3 cloves
▢½ tsp fennel / saunf
▢pinch hing / asafoetida
▢1 onion (finely chopped)
▢1 tsp ginger garlic paste
▢1 chilli (slit)
▢few curry leaves
▢¼ tsp turmeric
▢½ tsp kashmiri red chilli powder
▢½ tsp coriander powder
▢½ tsp salt
▢1 tomato (chopped)
▢1 cup water
▢2 tbsp coriander (chopped)
INSTRUCTIONS 
in a large kadai heat 2 tbsp oil and saute 1 bay leaf, 1 inch cinnamon, 3 cloves, ½ tsp fennel, pinch hing until it turns aromatic.
further add 1 onion followed by 1 tsp ginger garlic paste, 1 chilli and few curry leaves.
saute well until it changes colour.
keeping the flame on low add ¼ tsp turmeric, ½ tsp chilli powder, ½ tsp coriander powder and ½ tsp salt.
saute on low flame until spices turn aromatic.
further add 1 tomato and saute until the tomatoes turn soft and mushy.
add 1 cup water
add in pieces of chana dal vada and mix well.
cover and boil for 5 minutes.
add 2 tbsp coriander and mix well.
finally, enjoy vada curry recipe with idli and dosa.




